# Ultrasonic-digital-music-inspired-by-murine-songs-
Throughout history, music has been endowed with an artistic purpose, namely, an aesthetic use in which "beauty" arises from the organization of sound and impacts various spheres of human behavior, such as emotions and actions. In species like rodents, beneficial effects of music have been reported, such as enhancing learning abilities, reducing anxiety-like behaviors and stress, and inducing neuroplasticity. Previous musical stimulations of mice have used preconceived pieces for humans within their auditory range, without considering that species differ in their acoustic perception. In rodents, social communication mainly occurs in the ultrasonic range (>20 kHz), which is inaudible to humans. Furthermore, in courtship contexts, they emit high-frequency songs with repeated phrases, silences, and a variety of syllables, highlighting their musicality. Additionally, previous studies on music stimulation for animals show a lack of protocol homogeneity, limiting replicability. Taking this into account and adopting a novel, unreported approach, this study aimed to use ultrasonic courtship songs from two widely used mouse strains to design ultrasonic digital music inspired by murine songs. These songs were recorded, contextualized with behavior, and previously characterized in terms of their bioacoustic parameters. The results of the tests showed that the program did not have an anxiogenic effect on the enriched group compared to the control group. Ethograms revealed an increase in exploration behavior in the BALB/c strain during the musical stimulus reproduction. The plus-maze test showed exploratory behaviors in the stimuli group compared to the control. No negative behaviors in response to the music were recorded. Knowledge assets derived from this work include recordings of courtship vocalizations from both strains, a detailed methodology aiming to improve limitations in this type of study.
